welcome dear lovers 10 chess nice communication mother picture
maximum Aryans today we will see how 13 world champion Harry Kasparov spent
brilliant attack against us champion fabiano caruana
[music] this game played since 2016 at the tournament
ultimate shave challenge where harry kasparov fought with the best chess player
usa and here is fabiano caruana making the first move horse f3 horse f6 answer harry
Kasparov g3 is our reti debut and now we will see what is prepared for
Harry Kimovich and against this boring beginning, so we have complete
symmetry apparently wants to dry Harry in this
the party is by the way the last batch in this
tournament and maybe harry is already tired all the more he is no longer a young man like you
You know, he quit chess for quite some time, but he will return to the game so far.
us going leisurely and development and 5 play harry caspars based on
old Indian defense against fabiano caruana decided to picket both elephants
curly affect the center but maybe now he doesn’t want to spend more
and d4 that is, not only in figures of such
center but also by pawns so c5 playing harry caspars without giving an opportunity
play d2d 4 but this move has a minus field t5
now the horse is loosening, it can go to the center then the second horse will go to e1 well
and in general a policy of up to 5 white can occupy but no other plan has chosen
he wants to play d4 anyway, so he played e3 caspars with the game
horse c6 added a strike to the d4 field but also develops
a horse and now Fabiano Caruana’s fundamental choice is developing a horse
on zither as if at 5 now the elephant d3 already wants to go somewhere in the Harry variants
Kasparov therefore needs to react somehow
now is the time to play d4 then maybe it can be too late
because black can really block this field play slando 3
then e4 that is, a mechanical block such
put therefore to 4 plays caruana does everything right and 4 followed on
the right answer, but this answer is neutralization, and Harry Kasparov remembers everything he has
the same position stood for eighty years against chess players
for simon international master roughly and harry
Kasparov has a simply phenomenal circus memory remembers almost everything
his parties since childhood and even sessions of simultaneous play that is, he has
really brilliant memory and this is not the opposition stood on the board
only there the horse on the same 5 removed the web sim and here the fabian took the horse to e1 and here
led him to t2 now we will see if this route is better or not and Kasparov
start offensive plays h5 now he wants to play h4 and this is the standard plan
in such positions the pawn goes our 4 then maybe on h3
the queen is on d7, that is, here Black has a very clear plan of attack on the king and White
start the contour game on the queenside and here the question is who will create faster
problems the race begins literally this formula 1 on the chessboard and now we
let's see who is faster than the 53-year-old Kasparov for the 24-year-old
fabiano caruana chess speed is not determined for years as you understand
and skill and so Harry thought thinks ahead
prepares an attack plan because there are many obvious moves, for example, text b7
play or h40 is very deeply immersed in a position even in blitz
in games and running ahead I’ll say that now you need to prepare a pen and
leaflet because you will see just a brilliant example
attacks on the king from the world champion lessons from the champion are doubly valuable
so remember what will now show you harry kasparov remind
you friends that the tournament in which harry kasparov will return to chess will take place
already in August from August 14 to August 18 and we will broadcast all this action in
live on this channel so don't miss
be sure to subscribe to the channel put a bell so as not to
skip live because it will be very interesting and many
invited grandmasters so now back to the party
Harry Kimovich thought giving me the opportunity to talk but Kalash
muddy topic once again remind that very soon will be his return
so he plays with 4 is the standard promotion of such
positions he can occasionally play even h3 to lock the white elephant
he will have to leave on the field h1 but there is also an idea to play from
to weaken the coverage of the white king so it’s advisable to hold a pawn for now
on the h4 field to save room for maneuver, but Fabian thought
because he doesn’t know how to stop this avalanche attack, but it cost him
play h3 judges 4 of us, he plays the same
or not and opens up and if black plays say queen b7
then we can play the same 4 without fear of the sacrifice of an elephant because here we have
here is f3 and as a result, white fights off while preserving even the extra
a piece so that the h3 move allowed to hold the position but as if 3 plays Fabiano
Karuana and Kasparov just didn’t understand where he put the aslans, but he attacked a pawn
c5 and I want to play b4, that is, there are two ideas for this move so that 6 plays
Kasparov defended the pawn away from sin, but could not even defend it on
in fact, just in case, in a blitz, it’s especially useful to protect a pawn so that
nowhere to miscalculate, but she thinks about the cortex.
counterplay is here to develop a nose he plays 4 and what's next
both 4 can even hit several times the Fabian diode thought bitter
painful thoughts he began Kasparov clearly pleased with his position
even the non-verbalise shows why he prefers to play for black here and
By the way, the order is a fit of a black shirt that fits perfectly to the image
killers somewhere one play child ru she wants somewhere on foot to 6 maybe
I grab but I got it right there and I own it I had to remove Kasparov I'm sure
himself and column 1 to 7, the queen wants to transfer to the field and at 5
also there is still an idea to play scrapping h3 well, rather queen at five because our 3
without threats there as if one will be four play the cortex she wants to hide
lines to somehow distract the power of black from his king because
if you do nothing then really now the queen on f5 will move all the pieces
rebuild and checkmate the white king and now Kasparov thinks how
maximally effectively rebuild your pieces playing the queen in turn 5 is very
logical elephant now threatens to move to f3 queen
h5 also has an idea of ​​it let's look at the clock for two minutes
the Koran’s rivals left even a little more time but still time
enough they will now begin the hottest part of the party all that came before
this can be called with people right now the fun begins
so Karl she thinks and in fact it’s time to burn bridges there is nothing left to lose
position is just the hardest game islam b2 it's a victim
you can play pawns on being four but Kasparov, even I think not
pay attention to this pawn because it has a sweeter target
the white king so far is getting along well up to 8 to protect you need 6 but now no
dc care because there after black dc capture the line and yes but
something good to suggest for Fabian is not so easy to play for them 5
attack a pawn up to 6 on occasion, that is, chain the rook to the pawn defense plus
maybe at 7 it’ll take it somewhere, as if in 3 it’s playing Kasparov already starting to change
figures who are involved in the defense of the king as if 2 he is the main
protector the main bodyguard and here it is
trying to eliminate harry kasparov really acts like a hit man
first removes all bodyguards then already gets to the boss with us
this will be the forensic theme of this party but it's all because of the shirt
kasparova like jason stetham in the movie parker d5 play fabiano caruana
opens the way for the elephant plus attacks the horse some changes nevertheless
occur because it was as if inactive now he at least has
green work can be exchanged for horse f6 so that this horse does not take part in
attack horses 5 plays Kasparov changed horse
own e5 horses one horse connected to the defense it seems that somehow
consolidate the defense of Fabiano Caruana and now let's see if Harry Kimovich succeeds
u find some additional resources to attack here because
really horse connected to the defense word here
plus changed the important horse it seems that the worst is behind, in fact it is only
I cheer up fans of Fabiano Caruana because Harry Kasparov is merciless
to play from the same one was chosen by the brother as much as he thought or a pawn f but if a pawn
you can take it there just by the line or drop by play r for pc 5 then g4 horse
therefore already plays but so that watering 2 appears at the king's escape, plus the queen
maybe our pawn can also go to it; 3 it can go as if 6 is playing Kasparov
attacked the e3 pawn just in case Fabian played db-1 in cold blood king
the same 7 just wants a rook on the line already put light h8 give him along the line
that is, all the pieces connected to the attack caspars in diablo 3 played Caruana and
it turns out that you own 8 you can’t play because you walk up to 6 therefore
Kasparov thinks how can he activate his rook immediately seemed
h8 no so you need to look for some other ways to strengthen the position of a
there isn’t much time, Kasparov has forty seconds left, just a game
queen h5 do you want to play d4 knight and attack a pawn already 2 + pawn on e3
will hang, that is, again, the voltage hung over
a white king
fabiano thinks he’s principle still has 44 seconds but time isn’t too thick
as they say how is it here to defend play h3
wants to play 4 is the idea to which we spoke earlier he wants to drive the enemy
from his territory to drive the entire black army into his camp, Kasparov thinks
play conner 7 of course 5 wants to connect to put pressure on a pawn as many as three
plus the root can jump on f3 how to defend against this plan to play the same 4
drives the enemy but Kasparov does not run and takes the battle to sacrifice an elephant for two
pawns and it turns out that running away with the king is now completely not
it seems possible because on korolev Vadim will own 5 and beyond
the path to the king is circumcised therefore try to change the queens Fabian & grafix to 1 but
Of course, Harry Kasparov refuses the column g3 and now the position is even more
aggravated pawn on e3 freezes threatens to hold h5 threatens horse same 5 threatens
all any move creates a threat to the white king ending 5 plays Kasparov
connects the knight to all the same black pieces involved the offensive
king h1 but it is certainly a very confident departure into the corner with something that the line already
fully exposed it looks like suicide water h8 play caspars
connects the last piece to the attack and the king g8 just clears the way
his elephant wants to steal a crowbar axis to eat a horse on the field to 6 and he plays
their 8 shah the king is one horse h3 korolev one ate a horse now here I am their 5 step
threatens what to do in by it is 5 seconds left he takes a horse you own 5 check a horse
f3 have to play and after owning f3 fabiana admitted defeat because
what to take and there will be just verses one magician
here is such a brilliant party of 13 world champion he showed how to
attack so friends but all you liked
this is phenomenal so from harry kasparov and you will like it
this batch this attack as well as I recommend you subscribe to the channel
because in August we plan a lot of hot events and today
20 00 Moscow time will be a live broadcast of the blitz match
Alexander Grischuk, and against Richard's report, everything will be interesting and come
useful for everyone but besides this I recommend you download
book 21 critical error newcomer to chess
With this book you can significantly accelerate your chess growth.
because to me and scissors these are all world champions including
the legendary harry kasparov and I thank you again for your attention and to new
Meet Believe and Nick
the evening will be nice
[music] on